## Team-2Fast2Furious-backend  

As noted by Team-Fast's README file, this project seeks to implement a route generation service for the Intercultural Senior Center to help them create routes for their delivery drivers. Our team, Team 2Fast2Furious, aims to build on on the work of the Team-Fast. To run this application, view the README.  

## Milestone 1 Release Notes:

Due to the scope and complexity of the codebase, our first milestone objective was to simply set up the local environment. After several weeks, we have been able to successfully set up the application on all team members' machines.

The second milestone objective was to familiarize ourselves with the codebase and APIs that have been implemented. This has been a challenge as many of the tools such as PostgreSQL and REACT were unfamiliar to the group beforehand. Thus this is likely going to be an ongoing process as the group learns more about the development resources.

The third milestone objective was to fix any visible bugs that occurred within the application. This is currently a work in progress, but we are pleased to report that at least one particularly visible bug has been fixed (an output error that showed the term "undefined" in a display field). Further improvements to the display are still in development.

One of our overall objectives for the project throughout the semester is to implement a map feature for routes. As of this milestone, we have successfully implemented a static map feature which provides a visualization of a generated route. We will continue to evaluate to see whether or not this feature can be improved upon.


## Milestone 2 Release Notes:

For Milestone 2, the two primary objectives our team wanted to focus on for the frontend was:
1) Research metrics and discuss information with client.
2) Research GIS methods and how to implement them.

The team ran into some obstacles in the pursuit of these two objectives. The team sponsor, Dr. Vitor, sent an email to the Intercultural Senior Center to gather exploratory information regarding potential metrics and other possible information. Because the Intercultural Senior Center is very busy, a meeting between the organization and the team regarding metrics information had to be arranged on a date relatively late in the month (March 25th) before the due date of milestone 2. On the subject of researching GIS methods to possibly improve the map function of the application, it has become apparent in the past week that adding "nice-to-have" features to the map feature would require changing the entire implementation, which could detract from other opportunities to improve the application. Due to time constraints, our team decided it would be better to set the map feature aside because it has been implemented to an acceptable level. This decision will affect the team's decisions on upcoming milestones, which will be explained in relevant future release notes.

To compensate for these challenges, the team has decided to focus on improving other aspects of the frontend. A new page has been added to the application which will serve as a homepage. This will hopefully help provide useful information to new users as to how the application works. Another change to the application is how recipient information is entered and displayed. Finally, the user interface has been improved to provide user feedback when inputting information to generate routes.


## Milestone 3 Release Notes:
The team's original objectives for milestone 3 were as follows:
1) Display multiple routes on a history tab.
2) Complete the home page.
3) Determine relevant metrics that the Intercultural Senior Center may want to track in the application.
4) Determine the best way to access and calculate metrics in code.

A basic history feature in our application has been established. It contains a list of route itineraries that have been generated by the user. Improvements may be forthcoming if time permits.

The basic homepage in the application is still a work in progress. A logo has been added for aesthetic purposes and some of the verbiage has been adjusted. Currently, the page is under review by Dr. Vitor for further evaluation.

Since the conclusion of Milestone 2, the team has met with representatives from the Intercultural Senior Center. During the meeting, the team inquired about whether any metrics would be useful to the organization. However, the team discovered that the organization already has processes in place to account for statistical data it finds important.

Due to this new information, the team has decided to set metric features as a low priority and instead focus on other parts of the application. The user input page for generating routes has been improved to ensure that each field has information before a route may be generated. Furthermore, after a number of bugs were discovered, ongoing improvements to the web application are currently being implemented to improve functionality. Included in these changes has been upgrading neo4j, a database management system used in the application, from version 4.4.3 to version 4.4.5.


## Milestone 4 Release Notes:
The team's original objectives for milestone 4 were as follows:
1) Limit the history page to display a set number of routes at a time.
2) Limit database to only store a set number of routes.
3) Focus on implementing metrics.

The first two objectives were meant to serve as quality of life improvements to be delivered on the premise that the application was functioning to a satisfactory level.

The third objective was set aside due to time constraints and to prevent redundant features which were already being handled through different methods by the Intercultural Senior Center.

Unfortunately, the team discovered a number of bugs while testing the application's route creation process. Due to this development, priorities shifted towards improving the effectiveness of the application's route generation feature.

The team adjusted location type validation and geocode validation on the backend which handles route generation. This resolved a number of the errors the team experienced while testing the application.

Furthermore, the team added a feature which allows a user to remove all drivers or all recepients as a quality of life improvement to the application.

## Milestone 5 Release Notes:
The team's original objectives for milestone 5 were as follows:
1) Focus on finalizing metrics 
2) Get code ready for production
3) Test everything and comment all new additions

The first objective was to finish a feature that had not been able to be started because the Intercultural Senior Center informed us that they already had a metrics tracking app for volunteer drivers and thus this would be redundant on our part. 

We then shifted our focus to expand the logging of the algorithm in an effort to increase quality of life. We also finished the History feature that was still half completed. At the end, we were also able to implement a feature that was specifically requested by the ISC, being able to export the database to an Excel file like the one they were using to upload the data initially. 

The last two objectives objective was to finialize our codebase for the end of the project. This is what we spent the majority of our time this milestone on. We cleaned up irrelevant code, and formatted it for consistancy. We also searched for and fixed small bug and made sure the code has comments and logging was thorough.

## Installing
1. Clone this git repo `git clone https://github.com/Atari4800/fast-backend.git`
1. Set up virtual enviroment `python -m venv .venv
2. Install dependencies `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Install postgres https://www.postgresql.org/download/ or pgAdmin4
4. Change database password in settings.py to same password used in Postgres installation
5. Make migrations `python manage.py makemigrations`
6. Migrate into database `python manage.py migrate`
7. Install neo4j Community Edition https://neo4j.com/download-center/
8. Open up terminal and navigate to `<Install Location>/neo4j-community-4.4.3\bin`
9. Run `neo4j console` to start neo4j server
10. Open up another terminal and navigate to backend repo root
11. Run `python manage.py runserver` to start django server
12. Continue to installation instructions on frontend READMEmd
